>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 4: THE TRUMP
IMMIGRATION BAN, STOPPED BY
COURT ORDER; AND IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, ARMED
CITIZENS ON PATROL ALONG THE
U.S.-MEXICO BORDER.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING, AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION'S BAN
ON IMMIGRATION FROM SEVEN
PREDOMINANTLY MUSLIM COUNTRIES
IS ON HOLD NATIONWIDE FOLLOWING
A TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER
ISSUED BY A FEDERAL JUDGE IN
SEATTLE LAST NIGHT.
TODAY, THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY ANNOUNCED IT
HAS SUSPENDED ALL ACTIONS
ENFORCING THE IMMIGRATION BAN
AND HAS TOLD AIRLINES TO LET
TRAVELERS FROM THOSE COUNTRIES
WITH VALID VISAS OR GREEN CARDS
BOARD PLANES BOUND FOR THE U.S.
THOSE COUNTRIES ARE IRAN, IRAQ,
LIBYA, SYRIA, SOMALIA, SUDAN AND
YEMEN.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCED
TODAY IT IS REVERSING THE
CANCELLATION OF VISAS THAT HAD
BEEN ISSUED TO 60,000 PEOPLE WHO
HAD BEEN PREVENTED FROM ENTERING
THE U.S. SINCE THE TRUMP
EXECUTIVE ORDER EIGHT DAYS AGO.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION PLANS
TO APPEAL THE COURT RULING THAT
HAS HALTED THE IMMIGRATION BAN.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S MEGAN
THOMPSON HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: IN SEATTLE LAST
NIGHT, U.S. DISTRICT JUDGE JAMES
ROBART, AN APPOINTEE OF
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH,
GRANTED WASHINGTON STATE'S
REQUEST FOR A TEMPORARY
RESTRAINING ORDER ON THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S 90-DAY BAN ON
CITIZENS OF THE SEVEN COUNTRIES
TRAVELING TO THE U.S.
>> THE STATE HAS MET ITS BURDEN
OF DEMONSTRATING THAT IT FACES
IMMEDIATE AND IRREPARABLE INJURY
AS A RESULT OF THE SIGNING AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EXECUTIVE
ORDER.
>> Reporter: OUTSIDE COURT,
WASHINGTON STATE'S ATTORNEY
GENERAL SAID THE RULING PROVED
THE U.S. IS A NATION OF LAWS.
>> I SAID FROM THE BEGINNING IT
IS NOT THE LOUDEST VOICE THAT
PREVAILS IN A COURTROOM, IT'S
THE CONSTITUTION.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE HEARD FROM
JUDGE ROBART TODAY.
>> Reporter: THE WHITE HOUSE
IMMEDIATELY CALLED THE RULING
"OUTRAGEOUS" AND VOWED TO
APPEAL.
SPOKESMAN SEAN SPICER SAID:
TWEETING FROM HIS HOME IN PALM
BEACH, FLORIDA, THIS MORNING,
PRESIDENT TRUMP CRITICIZED THE
RULING AND THE JUDGE, SAYING:
THE PRESIDENT CONTINUED:
FOR THE THIRD SATURDAY IN A ROW,
TRUMP PROTESTERS WERE OUT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY, FROM WASHINGTON,
D.C.; TO PHILADELPHIA; TO
BOULDER, COLORADO.
TRUMP PROTESTERS ALSO HIT THE
STREETS OVERSEAS, AS FAR AWAY AS
AUSTRALIA AND IN INDONESIA,
WHICH HAS THE WORLD'S LARGEST
MUSLIM POPULATION.
IN LONDON, THOUSANDS MARCHED
FROM THE AMERICAN EMBASSY TO
PARLIAMENT PROTESTING THE
IMMIGRATION BAN.
>> WE THINK IT'S A DISGUSTING
ESCALATION OF DONALD TRUMP'S
CAMPAIGN OF WHIPPING UP
ISLAMOPHOBIA.
>> Reporter: THEY CALLED ON
PRIME MINISTER THERESA MAY TO
RESCIND HER INVITATION TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP TO VISIT BRITAIN
THIS SUMMER.
MORE THAN A THOUSAND PROTESTERS
MARCHED AT BERLIN'S BRANDENBURG
GATE, WHERE A WALL ONCE
SEPARATED EAST AND WEST GERMANY.
>> Stewart: THERE WAS A SHOW OF
FORCE BY IRAN TODAY, THE DAY
AFTER THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
IMPOSED NEW SANCTIONS ON TWO
DOZEN IRANIAN INDIVIDUALS AND
COMPANIES IN RESPONSE TO IRAN
TEST FIRING A BALLISTIC MISSILE
EARLIER THIS WEEK.
IRAN STATE-RUN TELEVISION
SHOWED THE COUNTRY'S HARDLINE
REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS CARRYING
OUT MILITARY EXERCISES IN A
PROVINCE EAST OF TEHRAN.
A TOP IRANIAN GENERAL WAS QUOTED
AS SAYING, "IF WE SEE THE
SMALLEST MISSTEP FROM THE
ENEMIES, OUR ROARING MISSILES
WILL FALL ON THEIR HEADS."
TRAVELING IN JAPAN TODAY,
DEFENSE SECRETARY JAMES MATTIS
SAID HE SEES NO NEED TO INCREASE
FORCES IN THE MIDDLE EAST
BECAUSE OF IRAN'S ACTIONS.
IN TOKYO, SECRETARY MATTIS SAID
THE U.S. JAPANESE ALLIANCE IS
CRITICAL TO ENSURING SECURITY IN
ASIA, AND THE U.S. IS COMMITTED
TO DEFENDING ALL JAPANESE
TERRITORY FROM ATTACK.
MATTIS TOLD JAPAN'S DEFENSE
MINISTER THAT PLEDGE INCLUDES
ISLANDS BETWEEN OKINAWA AND
TAIWAN, ADMINISTERED SINCE 1972
BY JAPAN, BUT ALSO CLAIMED BY
CHINA.
THIS WAS MATTIS' FIRST OVERSEAS
TRIP AS DEFENSE SECRETARY.
READ POEMS BY WRITERS FROM THE
SEVEN COUNTRIES AFFECTED BY THE
ADMINISTRATION'S IMMIGRATION
BAN.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
BILLIONAIRE BUSINESSMAN VINCENT
VIOLA, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PICK TO
BE THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY,
HAS WITHDRAWN FROM
CONSIDERATION.
A WEST POINT GRADUATE AND
RETIRED ARMY OFFICER, VIOLA,
OWNER OF THE FLORIDA PANTHERS
HOCKEY TEAM, SAID THE CHALLENGES
OF SEPARATING HIMSELF FROM HIS
BUSINESSES HAVE "PROVEN
INSURMOUNTABLE."
ENTERING THE ADMINISTRATION'S
THIRD WEEK, ONLY FIVE MEMBERS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CABINET PICKS
ARE ON THE JOB, INCLUDING THE
SECRETARIES OF STATE, DEFENSE,
HOMELAND SECURITY AND
TRANSPORTATION.
BUT THE HEADS OF THE DEPARTMENTS
OF JUSTICE, TREASURY, HEALTH,
LABOR, HOUSING, VETERANS AFFAIRS
AND NINE OTHERS STILL AWAIT
SENATE CONFIRMATION.
JOINING ME FROM WASHINGTON TO
DISCUSS THE STATUS OF CABINET
NOMINEES IS "ROLL CALL" REPORTER
NIELS LESNIEWSKI.
NIELS, WHAT IS THE DAY-TO-DAY
IMPACT OF ONLY HAVING ABOUT A
QUARTER OF THE CABINET SEATED?
>> WELL, THE REAL IMPACT IS IN
DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES WHERE
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS WANT
TO MAKE BIG CHANGES REALLY
QUICKLY.
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, TOM PRICE, THE
CONGRESSMAN FROM GEORGIA WHO HAS
BEEN NOMINATED TO HEAD THAT UP,
IS GOING TO BE THE PERSON THAT
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION HAS IN
CHARGE OF ROLLING OUT POLICY
CHANGES, BOTH IN SORT OF
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS AND
LEGISLATIVELY TO REPEAL AND ROLL
BACK OBAMACARE; AND THEN THE
TREASURY SECRETARY, WHEN STEVE
MNUCHIN GETS CONFIRMED, HE'S
PROBABLY GOING TO BE TASKED AS
THE POINT MAN ON ANY REWRITE OF
THE TAX CODE.
SO TO THE EXTENT THAT THERE ARE
AGENCIES THAT ARE CONTINUING TO
SORT OF DO THE WORK THAT THEY
HAD BEEN DOING UNDER PRESIDENT
OBAMA TO SOME DEGREE, THOSE
SORTS OF FUNCTIONS CONTINUE.
IT'S REALLY THE PLACES WHERE
THEY WANT TO DO A WHOLESALE
CHANGE OF WHAT WAS BEING DONE
DURING THE OBAMA YEARS THAT THEY
HAVE THE BIGGEST PROBLEMS.
>> Stewart: THERE'S SOMETHING
THAT I NOTICED WATCHING
TELEVISION, I'VE SEEN THESE
ADVERTISEMENTS FOR CABINET
PICKS, TOUTING WHO THEY ARE AND
WHAT THEY MIGHT DO.
SCOTT PRUITT, FOR EXAMPLE, FOR
THE E.P.A.
THEY'RE BEING PAID FOR BY
DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONS THAT,
OBVIOUSLY, SUPPORT THAT AGENDA.
BUT WHY IS THIS-- WHAT DOES IT
SAY THAT WE HAVE COMMERCIALS
ABOUT CABINET PICKS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THE
COMMERCIALS ABOUT THE CABINET
PICKS ARE LAYING THE GROUNDWORK
FOR THE EVENTUAL VOTES THAT TAKE
PLACE ON THE FLOOR OF THE
SENATE, SO THAT WHEN, LET'S SAY
YOU ARE A VOTER IN INDIANAPOLIS
AND YOUR SENATOR JOE DONNELLY
VOTES AGAINST-- WHO IS A
DEMOCRAT-- VOTES AGAINST SOME OF
THESE TRUMP NOMINEES, THERE ARE
ALREADY ADS THAT MAY HAVE
ALREADY BEEN RUNNING AGAINST
HIM.
I THINK A LOT OF THIS IS SORT OF
LAYING THE GROUNDWORK FOR THE AD
CAMPAIGNS THAT TAKE PLACE DOWN
THE ROAD AGAINST THE INCUMBENT
DEMOCRATIC SENATORS.
>> Stewart: HOW MUCH OF THIS
LACK OF CONFIRMATION HAS TO DO
WITH THE VETTING PROCESS TAKING
LONGER?
HOW MUCH OF IT HAS TO DO WITH
POLITICS?
>> THERE WERE SOME VETTING
QUESTIONS WITH SOME OF THE
NOMINEES THAT LARGELY HAVE BEEN
RESOLVED NOW, ALTHOUGH SOME
STILL HAVE NOT.
A LOT OF THIS NOW IS POLITICAL,
HOWEVER.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING, AND WE'LL SEE
STARTING ON MONDAY, IS THE
SENATE BASICALLY BEING IN MAYBE
CONTINUOUSLY THROUGH THE
WEEKENDS, UP UNTIL THE
PRESIDENT'S DAY RECESS, TRYING
TO GET AS MANY OF THESE
CONFIRMED AS POSSIBLE, WITH
DEMOCRATS BASICALLY TAKING UP
ALL THE DEBATE TIME IMAGINABLE
FOR PEOPLE LIKE JEFF SESSIONS,
THE PICK TO BE THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, FOR TOM PRICE FOR
H.H.S., AND SOME OTHER PICKS.
THAT THE IDEA HERE IS THAT THE
DEMOCRATS REALLY SEEM TO BE
WANTING THE SENATE REPUBLICANS
TO DO AS LITTLE AS POSSIBLE ON
THE FLOOR AND BASICALLY DRAGGING
THIS PROCESS OUT AS LONG AS THEY
CAN, IT MINIMIZES THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DO ANYTHING ELSE.
>> Stewart: NIELS LESNIEWSKI,
FROM "ROLL CALL," THANKS A LOT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: DURING HIS FIRST
WEEK IN OFFICE, PRESIDENT TRUMP
SIGNED AN EXECUTIVE ORDER TO
BUILD A WALL ALONG THE 2,000-
MILE BORDER BETWEEN THE UNITED
STATES AND MEXICO.
HE ALSO PLEDGED TO HIRE MORE
BORDER PATROL AGENTS AND CREATE
MORE DETENTION CENTERS FOR
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.
BORDER SECURITY IS ALSO ABOUT
SLOWING THE FLOW OF ILLEGAL
DRUGS.
ACCORDING TO THE U.S. BORDER
PATROL AND THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION, HALF THE
MARIJUANA SEIZED IN THE U.S.
COMES ACROSS A STRETCH OF
ARIZONA, BORDERING MEXICO.
THAT'S WHERE CORRESPONDENT NICK
SCHIFRIN AND PRODUCER ZACH
FANNIN TRAVELED FOR TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WHERE A FEW
LOCAL RESIDENTS HAVE TAKEN UP
ARMS.
>> Reporter: TIM FOLEY LIKES TO
DESCRIBE HIMSELF AND HIS MEN AS
A KIND OF NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH,
AND THESE 600 SQUARE MILES ALONG
THE ARIZONA-MEXICO BORDER ARE
THEIR BACKYARD.
FOR THE LAST SEVEN YEARS, THE
57-YEAR-OLD FORMER ARMY SOLDIER,
FIREFIGHTER AND CONSTRUCTION
WORKER HAS LED THE ARIZONA
BORDER RECON.
FOLEY DESCRIBES IT AS A
SURVEILLANCE GROUP, BUT MEMBERS
ARE ARMED WITH MILITARY-STYLE
RIFLES THAT ARE LEGAL IN
ARIZONA.
THEY'RE PREPARED TO INTERCEPT OR
CAPTURE ANYONE CROSSING THE
BORDER ILLEGALLY.
>> WHEN FRIENDS COME TO YOUR
HOUSE, THEY COME TO THE FRONT
DOOR AND RING THE BELL AND
ANNOUNCE THEMSELVES.
THEY DON'T WAIT 'TIL YOU'RE NOT
HOME, AND THEN CLIMB THROUGH
YOUR BACK WINDOW AND MAKE
THEMSELVES AT HOME.
>> Reporter: THIS DESERT LAND IS
A WELL-WORN ROUTE FOR MEXICAN
CARTELS.
BORDER RECON MEMBERS WANT TO TRY
AND SECURE THE BORDER BECAUSE
THEY SAY THE GOVERNMENT HAS
FAILED TO DO SO.
>> BASICALLY, WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO DO IS JUST HURT THE CARTELS'
POCKETBOOK.
THIS AREA IS PRETTY MUCH THEIRS,
AND WE'RE COMING BACK IN AND
GOING, "IT'S NOT YOURS, IT'S
OURS."
>> Reporter: TO TRY AND CATCH
THE CARTELS, FOLEY HIDES MOTION-
ACTIVATED CAMERAS.
>> I CAN SEE WHAT TIMES OF DAY
THEY COME BY, WHAT DAYS OF THE
WEEK, AND START TO SEE IF
THERE'S ANY TYPE OF PATTERN.
>> Reporter: LATE LAST YEAR,
FOLEY'S CAMERAS RECORDED THESE
MEN DRESSED IN DESERT CAMOUFLAGE
WALKING FROM MEXICO INTO
ARIZONA.
SMUGGLERS BRING IN MARIJUANA,
HEROIN, COCAINE,
METHAMPHETAMINES, AND SOMETIMES
PEOPLE.
THE LAST MAN CARRIED A BROOM TO
SWEEP UP THEIR FOOTPRINTS.
SOME WEAR THESE BOOTIES WITH
CARPET SOLES TO AVOID LEAVING
TRACKS.
>> SO, IF I'M WEARING THIS...
>> Reporter: CAN'T SEE ANYTHING.
>> ...THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY VERY GOOD.
IT'S VERY INGENIOUS.
>> Reporter: FOLEY SAYS THIS
FIGHT IS PERSONAL.
AT AN EARLY AGE, HE STARTED
ABUSING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS,
EVERYTHING FROM HEROIN TO
SNIFFING GLUE.
>> FOR 30 YEARS, I WAS HIGHER
THAN A KITE.
AND THEN, I CAME DOWN HERE.
I WAS GOING, "I KNOW WHAT THIS
STUFF DOES, AND I WANT TO KEEP
AS MANY PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE AWAY
FROM IT."
>> Reporter: FOLEY HAS NO
INTEREST IN BEING A U.S. CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PROTECTION AGENT, BUT
HE TOLD US HE WORKS WITH THEM.
AT ONE POINT DURING OUR VISIT,
HE SAID THIS CALL WAS FROM AN
AGENT.
>> YOU MISSED THE GROUP BY ABOUT
AN HOUR AND A HALF.
>> ROGER THAT.
WILL DO.
THEY KNOW THAT I HAVE SO MUCH
INTEL.
>> Reporter: C.B.P. DECLINED OUR
REQUEST FOR AN INTERVIEW BUT
SAID IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT IT
"DOES NOT ENDORSE OR SUPPORT ANY
PRIVATE GROUP OR ORGANIZATION
FROM TAKING MATTERS INTO THEIR
OWN HANDS AS IT COULD HAVE
DISASTROUS PERSONAL AND PUBLIC
SAFETY CONSEQUENCES."
>> Reporter: IN ARIZONA, THERE
ARE MORE THAN A DOZEN SELF-
DESCRIBED MILITIA GROUPS, NONE
OF WHICH WERE CREATED OR
SANCTIONED BY THE STATE.
THE ARIZONA STATE MILITIA POSTS
YOUTUBE VIDEOS OF ITS TRAINING
TO BECOME "THE LAST LINE OF
DEFENSE" AGAINST EVERYTHING FROM
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION TO AN
OUTBREAK OF DISEASE.
>> I PREPARE FOR THINGS SUCH AS
A PANDEMIC OR SOMETHING OF THAT
NATURE.
IN A MEDICAL SITUATION, WE MAY
BE REQUIRED TO SECURE A HOSPITAL
SO THERE'S NOT A RUN ON SUPPLIES
THERE, SO PEOPLE CAN GET PROPER
TREATMENT.
>> Reporter: 30-YEAR-OLD CODY
SALAZAR-BETZER JOINED EIGHT
MONTHS AGO.
HE TRAINS ON RADIOS, HANDGUNS
AND MILITARY-STYLE RIFLES.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF SITUATIONS
YOU CAN DREAM UP IN YOUR HEAD
THAT MAY BE POSSIBLE WHERE YOU
MAY BE CALLED TO DEFEND IN A
SITUATION WHERE JUST SIMPLE
HANDS, HAND-TO-HAND WON'T DO.
>> SO, CODY'S OUR CORPORAL.
THAT WAS HIS PROMOTION AFTER HIS
90 DAYS FOR ALL THE WORK HE DOES
ON OUR WEB SITE.
>> Reporter: THE ARIZONA STATE
MILITIA IS LED BY THIS 42-YEAR-
OLD NAMED BRYAN, WHO WOULDN'T
GIVE HIS LAST NAME.
HE SAYS HE SERVED IN THE
MILITARY, BUT WE COULDN'T VERIFY
THAT.
HE AND MANY PEOPLE HERE MAKE THE
UNPROVEN ASSERTION THAT ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION HAS INCREASED CRIME
AND TAKEN AWAY AMERICAN JOBS.
>> WHEN YOU GOT POSSIBLY IN THE
HUNDREDS A DAY COMING ACROSS,
THAT'S EVENTUALLY GOING TO HAVE
AN IMPACT, WHICH WE'RE STARTING
TO SEE NOW.
>> Reporter: MARK POTOK OF THE
SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER IS
ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S LEADING
AUTHORITIES ON MILITIA GROUPS.
HE CALLS THEM OUT-OF-CONTROL
VIGILANTES.
>> THESE PEOPLE ARE INCREDIBLY
DANGEROUS.
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE RUNNING AROUND
LIKE A BUNCH OF G.I. JOES,
DARTING FROM CACTUS PLANT TO
CACTUS PLANT, ARMED TO THE TEETH
AND ESSENTIALLY PLAYING WAR.
>> Reporter: HE CITES THE
EXAMPLE OF SHAWNA FORDE, THE
LEADER OF THE MINUTEMAN AMERICAN
DEFENSE MILITIA THAT TOOK IT
UPON ITSELF TO PATROL THE
BORDER.
IN 2009, FORD PLANNED AND HELPED
ROB AND KILL A LATINO MAN, RAUL
FLORES, AND HIS NINE-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER BRISENIA, MISTAKENLY
THINKING HE WAS A DRUG DEALER
WHOSE MONEY SHE COULD STEAL TO
FUND HER MOVEMENT.
A JURY SENTENCED FORDE TO DEATH.
>> THIS IS A MOVEMENT THAT TENDS
TO ATTRACT PEOPLE WHO ARE QUITE
UNHINGED.
THIS IS A BARREL WITH A WHOLE
LOT OF BAD APPLES IN IT.
>> Reporter: FOLEY'S HEARD THIS
CRITIQUE.
>> IT'S POLITICALLY CORRECT TO
CALL US RACISTS AND EVERYTHING
ELSE.
THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
I PREFER THE TERM "DOMESTIC
EXTREMIST" BECAUSE IF GETTING
OFF THE COUCH AND DOING
SOMETHING IS EXTREME, THEN,
YEAH, I'M AN EXTREMIST.
>> Reporter: TO PROTECT THE
BORDER, IN 2006, THE BUSH AND
THEN OBAMA ADMINISTRATIONS
STARTED BUILDING NEW, TALLER
FENCES LIKE THIS ONE IN ARIZONA.
TODAY, SOME KIND OF BARRIER
COVERS MOST OF THE STATES 370-
MILE SOUTHERN BORDER.
THE POLICY IS MEANT TO SECURE
CITIES.
THIS BORDER FENCE WAS BUILT
ABOUT FOUR YEARS AGO.
IT GOES ALL THE WAY INTO THE
TOWN OF NOGALES AND BEYOND IT.
IT RUNS FOR ABOUT FOUR MILES
UNTIL THIS POINT.
EVERYTHING BEYOND HERE IS JUST A
VEHICLE BARRIER.
THE IDEA IS TO FORCE ANYTHING
ILLEGAL-- WHETHER PEOPLE OR
DRUGS THAT ARE COMING ACROSS--
INTO THESE REMOTE, RURAL AREAS.
BUT EVEN HERE, THE LOCAL SHERIFF
SAYS THAT THOSE MILITIA GROUPS
AREN'T WELCOME.
>> WE HAVE NO WAY OF VETTING
THESE PEOPLE.
WE DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE.
>> Reporter: TONY ESTRADA HAS
BEEN THE ELECTED SHERIFF OF THIS
COUNTY FOR 24 YEARS.
HE'S A DEMOCRAT.
HE SAYS MEXICAN SMUGGLERS TRY
AND AVOID PEOPLE, AND THAT KEEPS
VIOLENT INCIDENTS LOW.
HE BELIEVES AGGRESSIVE MILITIAS
INCREASE THE POTENTIAL OF
VIOLENCE.
>> THEY MAY MEAN WELL, BUT IT'S
NOT GOING TO WORK.
THEY'RE GOING TO PUT THEMSELVES
IN DANGER, AND IT'S GOING TO
CREATE MORE PROBLEMS THAN IT'S
GOING TO SOLVE.
>> Reporter: 80 MILES TO THE
EAST, MARK DANNELS, A
REPUBLICAN, IS THE ELECTED
SHERIFF OF THE NEIGHBORING
COUNTY, WITH 6,000 SQUARE MILES
OF LAND AND 80 MILES OF BORDER.
HIS OFFICE ALSO HAS VIDEO OF
CAMOUFLAGED DRUG MULES BRINGING
BUNDLES FROM MEXICO INTO THE
U.S.
HIS NEW SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS CAN
PEER INTO THE MEXICAN HILLS TWO
MILES AWAY.
HE SAYS THAT LITTLE BLACK
STRUCTURE ON THE TOP OF THE HILL
IS FULL OF CARTEL SCOUTS.
DANNELS SAYS MILITIAS DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH TECHNOLOGY OR LEGITIMACY.
>> WHEN YOU ENTRUST A LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCY, THEY'VE BEEN
VETTED THROUGH A COMMUNITY, A
PROCESS.
MILITIAS ARE NOT VETTED.
IF THEY WANT TO BE EYES AND EARS
LIKE WE TALK ABOUT COMMUNITY
POLICING, LET IT BE.
BUT IT ALWAYS GOES TO THE NEXT
LEVEL WHERE THEY'RE ARMED BETTER
THAN MY DEPUTIES ARE.
>> Reporter: JUST DOWN THE ROAD,
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER
PROTECTION IS COMPLETING A FOUR-
YEAR-OLD UPGRADE OF THE BORDER
FENCE.
THERE'S A RANCH THAT RUNS UP TO
THE BORDER, AND IT'S OWNED BY
JOHN LADD.
HIS FAMILY HAS LIVED HERE
CONTINUOUSLY FOR 120 YEARS.
HE SAYS, DESPITE THE FENCE, DRUG
SMUGGLERS CROSS HIS PROPERTY
FREELY.
>> THEIR BACKPACK IS 50-POUND
PACK IN THE BACK AND 20 POUNDS
IN THE FRONT.
THEY'LL TAKE THEIR DOPE TO THE
HIGHWAY, GO BACK AND GET ANOTHER
LOAD.
THEY'LL DO THREE LOADS A DAY.
THE DOPE WILL BE PICKED UP BY A
VEHICLE ON THE HIGHWAY.
>> Reporter: HE WOULD LIKE TO
SEE MORE FEDERAL BORDER AGENTS,
NOT MILITIA GROUPS.
>> IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE ON THE
BORDER, IT'S GOING TO BE A
LEGITIMATE AGENCY THAT IS GOING
TO TAKE CARE OF THE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: THERE'S ONE MORE
LAYER OF CRITICISM.
SOME LOCAL RESIDENTS TOLD ME
THEY'RE SCARED OF FOLEY AND THE
WEAPONS HE KEEPS IN HIS HOUSE.
THERE ARE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY IN GENERAL WHO ARE
KIND OF SCARED OF YOU, I THINK.
I MEAN, SHOULD THEY BE SCARED OF
YOU?
>> THEY SHOULDN'T BE BECAUSE WE
ARE PROTECTING THEM.
AND I TOLD MYSELF WHEN I CAME
DOWN HERE, I WOULDN'T LEAVE
UNTIL IT WAS SECURE.
>> Reporter: IN HIS FIRST WEEK
IN OFFICE, PRESIDENT TRUMP
ANNOUNCED HIS PROPOSALS TO
SECURE THE BORDER: BUILDING A
WALL, HIRING 5,000 MORE BORDER
AGENTS AND INCREASING
PROSECUTION OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS.
>> BEGINNING TODAY, THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA GETS BACK
CONTROL OF ITS BORDERS, GETS
BACK ITS BORDERS.
>> Reporter: BUT CONGRESS STILL
NEEDS TO AUTHORIZE THE MONEY,
AND NO ONE KNOWS HOW MUCH OF THE
WALL WILL BE BUILT, HOW MANY
AGENTS WILL ACTUALLY BE HIRED OR
HOW EFFECTIVE THE PLAN MIGHT BE.
FOLEY ISN'T WAITING.
HE VOWS TO CONTINUE PATROLLING,
NO MATTER THE CRITICS.
>> I'M NOT DOING THIS FOR
MYSELF.
I'M NOT DOING IT FOR FAME.
I'M NOT DOING IT FOR FORTUNE,
BECAUSE I'M BROKE AS HELL.
I'M DOING IT FOR EVERYBODY
BECAUSE WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT IS
COMING THROUGH THAT BORDER.
>> Stewart: ON HIS CALL LIST
TODAY, PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE TO
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO.
THE PHONE CONVERSATION COMES AT
THE END OF A WEEK WHERE MORE
THAN 30 PEOPLE DIED IN THE
EASTERN PART OF UKRAINE NEAR ITS
SHARED BORDER WITH RUSSIA, DUE
TO THE WORST FIGHTING IN TWO
YEARS BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES
AND RUSSIAN-BACKED SEPARATIST
REBELS.
ON THURSDAY, UNITED NATIONS
AMBASSADOR NIKKI HALEY SAID THE
ADMINISTRATION WOULD NOT LIFT
SANCTIONS IMPOSED ON RUSSIA IN
2014 AFTER IT ANNEXED THE
CRIMEAN PENINSULA OF UKRAINE,
UNTIL RUSSIA RETURNS CONTROL OF
THE REGION.
TO DISCUSS WHERE THE ISSUE GOES
FROM HERE, I AM JOINED BY
PROFESSOR TIMOTHY FRYE, CHAIR OF
THE POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENT
AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
PROFESSOR, WHAT TRIGGERED THIS
ESCALATION?
>> WELL, I THINK THE UKRAINIAN
FORCES WANT TO SEND A MESSAGE
THAT THEY SHOULD NOT BE
FORGOTTEN.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION HAS
BARELY PAID ANY ATTENTION TO
UKRAINE UNTIL THIS WEEK, AND
SOME ARGUE THAT THIS ESCALATION
ON THE UKRAINIAN SIDE WAS AN
ATTEMPT TO GET THEIR ATTENTION.
ON THE RUSSIAN SIDE, THEY ALSO
MAY HAVE AN INTEREST IN SPARKING
THIS CONFLICT TO DEMONSTRATE TO
THE UKRAINIANS THAT PERHAPS THE
UNITED STATES DOES NOT HAVE
THEIR BACK THE WAY THEY HAD IN
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
>> Stewart: HOW BIG A TEST IS
THIS FOR THE UNITED STATES,
GIVEN THAT MANY ANALYSTS HAVE
SAID, "HEY, YEAH, THIS IS RUSSIA
SAYING WE HAVE A NEW
ADMINISTRATION IN THE U.S. AND
THEY'RE FRIENDLY TO US"?
>> YEAH, I THINK THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT TEST.
I THINK WHAT NIKKI HALEY'S
STATEMENT IS ABOUT, IT'S AN
ATTEMPT TO LAY THE GROUNDWORK
FOR A MUCH BROADER DEAL WITH
RUSSIA.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT SHE SAID
CLOSELY, SHE HAS A VERY STRONG
CONDEMNATION OF RUSSIA, CLEAR
LANGUAGE.
ALSO, SHE SAID, SPECIFICALLY,
THAT THE CRIMEA-RELATED
SANCTIONS WOULD STAY IN PLACE.
BUT WHAT SHE DIDN'T SAY WAS THAT
THE SANCTIONS RELATED TO THE
AGREEMENT WHICH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, OUR EUROPEAN
PARTNERS HAVE SAID, SANCTIONS
RELIEF WILL NOT HAPPEN UNTIL
BOTH SIDES ABIDE BY THIS
AGREEMENT.
THIS WAS NOT SPOKEN ABOUT AT
ALL.
IT WAS A SIGNIFICANT SOFTENING
OF U.S. SUPPORT FOR KIEV
COMPARED TO THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Stewart: HOW DID THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION REACT, AS
COMPARED TO HOW U.S. AMBASSADOR
NIKKI HALEY REACTED?
>> WELL, I THINK THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION IS PLAYING A
TWO-LEVEL GAME HERE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO REASSURE
CONGRESS THAT THEY WILL NOT GIVE
AWAY THE STORE IN ANY
NEGOTIATIONS WITH RUSSIA AROUND
UKRAINE.
REMEMBER, CONGRESS IS PUTTING
FORWARD LEGISLATION THAT WOULD
PREVENT THE PRESIDENT FROM
LIFTING SANCTIONS UNILATERALLY
WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL.
SO I THINK PART OF NIKKI HALEY'S
STATEMENT WAS DESIGNED TO
REASSURE CONGRESS THAT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WILL NOT GIVE
AWAY THE STORE, AND THAT THERE
IS NO NEED FOR THIS LEGISLATION
THAT WOULD TIE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
HANDS.
>> Stewart: WHAT IS IT THAT
PRESIDENT PETRO POROSHENKO WANTS
FROM THE UNITED STATES AT THIS
POINT?
>> HE WANTS A STRONGER POSITION
AT THE BARGAINING TABLE.
THERE'S BEEN NEGOTIATIONS AROUND
MINSK 2.
THIS IS AN AGREEMENT WHEREBY THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT WOULD
DEVOLVE SOME SOVEREIGNTY TO THE
TWO REGIONS THAT ARE IN
CONFLICT, AND THAT THERE WOULD
BE FREE AND FAIR ELECTIONS HELD.
AND ONCE THOSE ELECTIONS ARE
HELD, THEN THE RUSSIANS WOULD
SEAL OFF THE BORDER SO THAT NO
MATERIEL AND PERSONNEL COULD
CROSS INTO UKRAINE AND KEEP THE
FIGHTING GOING.
SO THE UKRAINIAN SIDE AND THE
RUSSIAN SIDE HAVE NOT FULFILLED
THEIR ENDS OF THE BARGAIN.
BUT THE POSITIONS OF THE
EUROPEANS AND THE UNITED STATES
WAS THAT ONLY AFTER THESE
AGREEMENTS ARE IN PLACE WILL THE
LARGE-SCALE SANCTIONS RELIEF BE
DELIVERED.
SO IN THIS WAY, THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S KIND OF HIVING
OFF THE CRIMEA-RELATED SANCTIONS
I THINK IS SIGNIFICANT.
>> Stewart: PROFESSOR TIMOTHY
FRYE FROM COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY,
THANK SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Stewart: THE "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTS PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS YET
TO CUT TIES WITH HIS BUSINESS
HOLDINGS.
DOCUMENTS OBTAINED THROUGH A
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
REQUEST SHOW THE TRUMP
ORGANIZATION'S ASSETS HAVE BEEN
PLACED IN A TRUST FOR THE
"EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT" OF MR.
TRUMP, ACCORDING TO THE "TIMES."
THE DOCUMENTS SAY THE
PRESIDENT'S ELDEST SON, DONALD,
JR., AND THE TRUMP
ORGANIZATION'S CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER, ALLEN WEISSELBERG, ARE
NOW IN CHARGE, BUT MR. TRUMP CAN
REVOKE THEIR AUTHORITY ANY TIME.
THE PRESIDENT ALSO RECEIVES
REPORTS ON PROFITS AND LOSSES,
THE "TIMES" SAYS.
IN FRANCE, MARINE LE PEN, THE
FAR RIGHT CANDIDATE IN THE
COUNTRY'S APRIL PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION, FORMALLY LAUNCHED HER
CAMPAIGN TODAY IN LYON.
HER SLOGAN: "PUT FRANCE BACK IN
ORDER."
LE PEN LEADS THE NATIONAL FRONT
PARTY, AND HER PLATFORM,
DETAILED TODAY, CALLS FOR
LEAVING THE EUROPEAN UNION,
DUMPING THE EURO FOR THE FRANC,
AND DROPPING OUT OF NATO'S
INTEGRATED COMMAND.
LE PEN ALSO WANTS TO TIGHTEN
FRANCE'S BORDERS, LIMIT
IMMIGRATION TO 10,000 PEOPLE A
YEAR AND NO LONGER EXTEND FRENCH
CITIZENSHIP BY MARRIAGE.
THIS IS LE PEN'S SECOND RUN FOR
THE PRESIDENCY.
SHE FINISHED THIRD IN 2012.
HER MAIN RIVAL FOR THE
PRESIDENCY IS CONSERVATIVE
FORMER PRIME MINISTER FRANCOIS
FILLON, WHO IS NOW EMBROILED IN
A CORRUPTION SCANDAL.
FRANCE'S MOST FAMOUS MUSEUM, THE
LOUVRE, REOPENED TO VISITORS
TODAY, ONE DAY AFTER A MAN WITH
A MACHETE ATTACKED FRENCH
SOLDIERS WHO GUARD THE MUSEUM.
FRENCH OFFICIALS SAY THE
ATTACKER WAS A 28-YEAR-OLD
EGYPTIAN MAN WHO ARRIVED IN
FRANCE LAST MONTH ON A TOURIST
VISA.
HE'S RECOVERING FROM WOUNDS
SUSTAINED WHEN SOLDIERS SHOT HIM
AFTER HE CHARGED AT FOUR OF
THEM, REPORTEDLY SHOUTING IN
ARABIC, "ALLAHU AKBAR, " MEANING
"GOD IS GREAT."
ONE SOLDIER WAS SLIGHTLY
INJURED.
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS SAY THE
ATTACKER HAD NO PRIOR CRIMINAL
RECORD OR KNOWN INVOLVEMENT WITH
EXTREMISTS GROUPS.
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE CALLED THE INCIDENT A
TERRORIST ATTACK.
>> Stewart: IN SYRIA'S CIVIL WAR
TODAY, AMERICAN-BACKED MILITIAS
LAUNCHED A NEW PHASE IN THEIR
SIEGE OF THE NORTHERN CITY OF
RAQQA, THE DE FACTO CAPITAL OF
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
SUPPORTED BY AMERICAN AIRSTRIKES
AND SPECIAL FORCES SOLDIERS, THE
SYRIAN DEMOCRATIC FORCES GROUP
AIMS TO COMPLETELY ENCIRCLE
RAQQA.
AND IN ROMANIA, BOWING TO
MASSIVE PROTESTS ALL WEEK
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY'S PARLIAMENT
BUILDING, ROMANIA'S PRIME
MINISTER SAYS HE'LL SCRAP A
DECREE THAT WOULD SHIELD
OFFICIALS FROM PROSECUTION FOR
CORRUPTION.
THE PROTESTS ARE THE COUNTRY'S
BIGGEST SINCE COMMUNIST RULE
ENDED IN 1989.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
I'M ALISON STEWART.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.